ANYTEXT: M ULTILINGUAL VISUAL TEXT GENERA -
TION AND EDITING
Yuxiang Tuo, Wangmeng Xiang, Jun-Yan He, Yifeng Geng∗, Xuansong Xie
Institute for Intelligent Computing, Alibaba Group
{yuxiang.tyx,wangmeng.xwm,leyuan.hjy,cangyu.gyf,xingtong.xxs}
@alibaba-inc.com
ABSTRACT
Diffusion model based Text-to-Image has achieved impressive achievements re-
cently. Although current technology for synthesizing images is highly advanced
and capable of generating images with high fidelity, it is still possible to give
the show away when focusing on the text area in the generated image, as syn-
thesized text often contains blurred, unreadable, or incorrect characters, making
visual text generation one of the most challenging issues in this field. To ad-
dress this issue, we introduce AnyText, a diffusion-based multilingual visual text
generation and editing model, that focuses on rendering accurate and coherent
text in the image. AnyText comprises a diffusion pipeline with two primary el-
ements: an auxiliary latent module and a text embedding module. The former
uses inputs like text glyph, position, and masked image to generate latent features
for text generation or editing. The latter employs an OCR model for encoding
stroke data as embeddings, which blend with image caption embeddings from the
tokenizer to generate texts that seamlessly integrate with the background. We em-
ployed text-control diffusion loss and text perceptual loss for training to further
enhance writing accuracy. AnyText can write characters in multiple languages,
to the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to address multilingual vi-
sual text generation. It is worth mentioning that AnyText can be plugged into
existing diffusion models from the community for rendering or editing text accu-
rately. After conducting extensive evaluation experiments, our method has outper-
formed all other approaches by a significant margin. Additionally, we contribute
the first large-scale multilingual text images dataset, AnyWord-3M, containing
3 million image-text pairs with OCR annotations in multiple languages. Based
on AnyWord-3M dataset, we propose AnyText-benchmark for the evaluation of
visual text generation accuracy and quality. Our project will be open-sourced
soon on https://github.com/tyxsspa/AnyText to improve and pro-
mote the development of text generation technology.
1 I NTRODUCTION
Diffusion-based generative models Saharia et al. (2022); Ramesh et al. (2022); Rombach et al.
(2022); Zhang & Agrawala (2023) demonstrated exceptional outcomes with unparalleled fidelity,
adaptability, and versatility. Open-sourced image generation models (for example, Stable Diffu-
sion Rombach et al. (2022), DeepFloyd-IF DeepFloyd-Lab (2023)), along with commercial services
(Midjourney Inc. (2022), DALL-E 2 Ramesh et al. (2022), etc.) have made substantial impacts in
various sectors including photography, digital arts, gaming, advertising, and film production. De-
spite substantial progress in image quality of generative diffusion models, most current open-sourced
models and commercial services struggle to produce well-formed, legible, and readable visual text.
Consequently, this reduces their overall utility and hampers potential applications.
The subpar performance of present open-source diffusion-based models can be attributed to a num-
ber of factors. Firstly, there is a deficiency in large-scale image-text paired data which includes
comprehensive annotations for textual content. Existing datasets for large-scale image diffusion
∗corresponding author
1
arXiv:2311.03054v5  [cs.CV]  21 Feb 2024

Text Genera!on Text Edi!ng
An ancient poem, written on the wall with a calligraphy brush, that reads “白日依山尽” “黄河入海流” “欲穷千里目”   “更上一层楼”(Chinese poem)
A baseball capwith words“要聪明地(smart)” and “全力以赴(all out)”
Signson the building that reads “科学(science)" and "과학(science)"  and "εςοϓ(science)" and "SCIENCE"
Anice drawing of octopus, sharks, and boats made by a child with crayons, with the words ”神奇海底世界( magi-cal underwater world)” 
a photo of a delicate and gorgeous gold ring with the word "LOVE", 4k, dslrA cartoon boy stands in front of a blackboard that says "AnyText" "of" "Stable Diffusion"
An ice sculpture is made with the text "Happy" and "Holi-days".  Dslr photo.A delicate  square cake,  cream and fruit, with "CHEERS" "to the" and "GRADUATE" written on it
Figure 1: Selected samples of AnyText. For text generation, AnyText can render the specified text
from the prompt onto the designated position, and generate visually appealing images. As for text
editing, AnyText can modify the text content at the specified position within the input image while
maintaining consistency with the surrounding text style. Translations are provided in parentheses
for non-English words in prompt, blue boxes indicate positions for text editing. See more in A.6.
Table 1: Comparison of AnyText with other competitors based on functionality.
Functionality Multi-line Deformed regions Multi-lingual Text editing Plug-and-play
GlyphDraw × × × × ×
TextDiffuser ✓ × × ✓ ×
GlyphControl ✓ × × × ✓
AnyText ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
model training, like LAION-5B Schuhmann et al. (2022), lack manual annotations or OCR results
for text content. Secondly, as pointed out in Liu et al. (2023), the text encoder used in open-source
diffusion models, such as the CLIP text encoder, employs a vocabulary-based tokenizer that has no
direct access to the characters, resulting in a diminished sensitivity to individual characters. Lastly,
most diffusion models’ loss functions are designed to enhance the overall image generation quality
and lack of dedicated supervision for the text region.
To address the aforementioned difficulties, we presentAnyTextframework and AnyWord-3Mdataset.
AnyText consists of a text-control diffusion pipeline with two components: auxiliary latent module
encodes auxiliary information such as text glyph, position, and masked image into latent space to
assist text generation and editing; text embedding module employs an OCR model to encode stroke
information as embeddings, which is then fused with image caption embeddings from the tokenizer
to render texts blended with the background seamlessly; and finally, a text perceptual loss in image
space is introduced to further enhance writing accuracy.
Regarding the functionality, there are five differentiating factors that set apart us from other com-
petitors as outlined in Table 1: a) Multi-line: AnyText can generate text on multiple lines at user-
specified positions. b) Deformed regions: it enables writing in horizontally, vertically, and even
curved or irregular regions. c) Multi-lingual: our method can generate text in various languages
such as Chinese, English, Japanese, Korean, etc. d) Text editing: which provides the capability for
modifying the text content within the provided image in consistent font style. e) Plug-and-play:
AnyText can be seamlessly integrated with stable diffusion models and empowering them with the
ability to generate text. We present some selected examples in Fig. 1 and Appendix A.6.
2 R ELATED WORKS
Text-to-Image Synthesis. In recent years, significant strides has been made in text-to-image synthe-
sis using denoising diffusion probabilistic models Ho et al. (2020); Ramesh et al. (2021); Song et al.
2

(2021); Dhariwal & Nichol (2021); Nichol & Dhariwal (2021); Saharia et al. (2022); Ramesh et al.
(2022); Rombach et al. (2022); Chang et al. (2023). These models have advanced beyond simple
image generation and have led to developments in interactive image editing Meng et al. (2022);
Gal et al. (2023); Brooks et al. (2022) and techniques incorporating additional conditions, such as
masks and depth maps Rombach et al. (2022). Research is also exploring the area of multi-condition
controllable synthesis Zhang & Agrawala (2023); Mou et al. (2023); Huang et al. (2023). Composit-
ing subjects into scenes presents more specific challenges, and approaches like ELITE Wei et al.
(2023), UMM-Diffusion Ma et al. (2023b), and InstantBooth Shi et al. (2023) utilize the features
from CLIP image encoder to encode the visual concept into textual word embeddings. Similarly,
DreamIdentity Chen et al. (2023c) developed a specially designed image encoder to achieve better
performance for the word embedding enhancing scheme.
Text Generation. Progress in image synthesis has been substantial, but integrating legible text into
images remains challenging Rombach et al. (2022); Saharia et al. (2022). Recent research has
focused on three key aspects of text generation:
Control Condition. Introducing glyph condition in latent space has been a predominant approach
in many recent methods. GlyphDraw Ma et al. (2023a) originally used an explicit glyph image as
condition, with characters rendered at the center. GlyphControl Yang et al. (2023) further extends
it by aligning the text based on its location, which also incorporates font size and text box position
in an implicit manner. TextDiffuser Chen et al. (2023b) utilizes a character-level segmentation mask
as control condition, and in addition, it introduces a masked image to simultaneously learn text
generation and text in-painting branches. In our work, we adopt a similar way as GlyphControl
to render glyph image but incorporate position and masked image as additional conditions. This
design enables AnyText to generate text in curved or irregular regions, and handle text generation
and editing simultaneously.
Text Encoder.The text encoder plays a crucial role in generating accurate visual text. Recent meth-
ods such as Imagen Saharia et al. (2022), eDiff-I Balaji et al. (2022), and Deepfloyd IF DeepFloyd-
Lab (2023) achieve impressive results by leveraging large-scale language models (e.g., T5-XXL).
However, most image generation models still rely on character-blind text encoders, and even
character-aware text encoders struggle with non-Latin text generation like Chinese, Japanese, and
Korean Liu et al. (2023). To address Chinese rendering, GlyphDraw fine-tunes the text encoder on
Chinese images and utilizes the CLIP image encoder for glyph embeddings Ma et al. (2023a). Dif-
fUTE replaces the text encoder with a pre-trained image encoder to extract glyphs in image editing
scenarios Chen et al. (2023a). In AnyText, we propose a novel approach to transform the text en-
coder by integrating semantic and glyph information. This aims to achieve seamless integration of
generated text with the background and enable multi-language text generation.
Perceptual Supervision. OCR-VQGAN Rodriguez et al. (2023) employs a pre-trained OCR de-
tection model to extract features from images, and supervise text generation by constraining the
differences between multiple intermediate layers. In contrast, TextDiffuser Chen et al. (2023b) uti-
lizes a character-level segmentation model to supervise the accuracy of each generated character in
the latent space. This approach requires a separately trained segmentation model, and the character
classes are also limited. In AnyText, we utilize an OCR recognition model that excels in stroke
and spelling to supervise the text generation within the designated text region only. This approach
provides a more direct and effective form of supervision for ensuring accurate and high-quality text
generation.
3 M ETHODOLOGY
As depicted in Fig. 2, the AnyText framework comprises a text-control diffusion pipeline with two
primary components (auxiliary latent module and text embedding module). The overall training
objective is defined as:
L = Ltd + λ ∗ Ltp (1)
where Ltd and Ltp are text-control diffusion loss and text perceptual loss, and λ is used to adjust
the weight ratio between two loss functions. In the following sections, we will introduce the text-
control diffusion pipeline, auxiliary latent module, text embedding module, and text perceptual loss
in detail.
3

v
vv
!!
 "!
""
"#
Diﬀusion
⊕ $"
""
Time Step%
VAE
❄ VAE
❄
❄
Auxiliary Latent Module
UNet
❄
TextControlNet
Prompt (y)：Photo of a lush estate with a sign reads "BEVERLY" and "HILLS"
Tokenizer !
GlyphLines !!
OCR  Encoder	"!
❄Embeddings
Text Embedding Module
"
Text Perceptual Loss &$%
#"
position
#′"
position
Perceptual  Loss
!′!Text-control Diﬀusion Pipeline
! Learnable models
❄ Frozen modelsAuxiliary LatentText EmbeddingText Perceptual
Token Replace
Glyph "!
Fuse Layer
Masked Image ""
!
Text Encoder "!
❄
OCR  Encoder	$#
❄
GlyphRender 
Position "$ 
Rand #
GlyphRender 
Glyph Block
!Pos. Block
!
#"#(%,%")
!%&
'$
VAE
❄
OCR  Encoder	$#
❄
Linear (
!
Figure 2: The framework of AnyText, which includes text-control diffusion pipeline, auxiliary latent
module, text embedding module, and text perceptual loss.
3.1 T EXT-CONTROL DIFFUSION PIPELINE
In the text-control diffusion pipeline, we generate the latent representation z0 ∈ Rh×w×c by apply-
ing Variational Autoencoder (V AE) Kingma & Welling (2014)ε on the input imagex0 ∈ RH×W ×3.
Here, h × w represents the feature resolution downsampled by a factor off, and c denotes the latent
feature dimension. Then latent diffusion algorithms progressively add noise to the z0 and produce a
noisy latent image zt, where t represents the time step. Given a set of conditions including time step
t, auxiliary feature za ∈ Rh×w×c produced by auxiliary latent module, as well as text embedding
cte produced by text embedding module, text-control diffusion algorithm applies a network ϵθ to
predict the noise added to the noisy latent image zt with objective:
Ltd = Ez0,za,cte,t,ϵ∼N (0,1)

∥ϵ − ϵθ(zt, za, cte, t)∥2
2

(2)
where Ltd is the text-control diffusion loss. More specifically, to control the generation of text,
we add za with zt and fed them into a trainable copy of UNet’s encoding layers referred to as
TextControlNet, and fed zt into a parameter-frozen UNet. This enables TextControlNet to focus on
text generation while preserving the base model’s ability to generate images without text. More-
over, through modular binding, a wide range of base models can also generate text. Please refer to
Appendix A.1 for more details.
3.2 A UXILIARY LATENT MODULE
In AnyText, three types of auxiliary conditions are utilized to produce latent feature map za: glyph
lg, position lp, and masked image lm. Glyph lg is generated by rendering texts using a uniform font
style (i.e., “Arial Unicode”) onto an image based on their locations. Accurately rendering characters
in curved or irregular regions is considerably challenging. Therefore, we simplify the process by
rendering characters based on the enclosing rectangle of the text position. By incorporating special-
ized position lp, we can still generate text in non-rectangular regions, as illustrated in Fig. 3. Position
lp is generated by marking text positions on an image. In the training phase, the text positions are
obtained either from OCR detection or through manual annotation. In the inference phase, lp is
obtained from the user’s input, where they specify the desired regions for text generation. Moreover,
the position information allows the text perceptual loss to precisely target the text area. Details re-
garding this will be discussed in Sec. 3.4. The last auxiliary information is masked imagelm, which
indicates what area in image should be preserved during the diffusion process. In the text-to-image
mode, lm is set to be fully masked, whereas in the text editing mode, lm is set to mask the text
regions. During training, the text editing mode ratio is randomly switched with a probability of σ.
To incorporate the image-based conditions, we use glyph block and position block to downsample
glyph lg and position lp, and V AE encoder ε to downsample the masked image lm, respectively.
The glyph block G and position block P both contain several stacked convolutional layers. After
transforming these image-based conditions into feature maps that match the spatial size of zt, we
4

utilize a convolutional fusion layer f to merge lg, lp, and lm, resulting in a generated feature map
denoted as za, which can be represented as:
za = f (G(lg) + P (lp) + ε(lm)) (3)
where za shares the same number of channels as zt.
sign on the street that says “禁止超速(No Speeding)”
photoof a delicategift box,  the words “新婚快乐(happy wedding)" are written on it, DSLR photo 
a logo of a mermaid, with the words "STARBUCKS" and "COFFEE"
a banner that reads "2023" and "CHAMPION"
Figure 3: Illustration of generating text in curved or irregular regions, left images are text positions
provided by the user.
3.3 T EXT EMBEDDING MODULE
Text encoders excel at extracting semantic information from caption, but semantic information of the
text to be rendered is negligible. Additionally, most pre-trained text encoders are trained on Latin-
based data and can’t understand other languages well. In AnyText, we propose a novel approach to
address the problem of multilingual text generation. Specifically, we render glyph lines into images,
encode glyph information, and replace their embeddings from caption tokens. The text embeddings
are not learned character by character, but rather utilize a pre-trained visual model, specifically the
recognition model of PP-OCRv3 Li et al. (2022). The replaced embeddings are then fed into a
transformer-based text encoder as tokens to get fused intermediate representation, which will then
be mapped to the intermediate layers of the UNet using a cross-attention mechanism. Due to the
utilization of image rendering for text instead of relying solely on language-specific text encoders,
our approach significantly enhances the generation of multilingual text, as depicted in Fig. 4.
Sign on the building that reads “我明白中文(I understand Chinese)”
Sign on the building that reads “I understand English” Sign on the building that reads “ޠ͕෼͔Γ·͢(I understand Japanese)”Sign on the building that reads “나는한국어를안다(I understand Korean)”
Figure 4: Illustration of generating text in multiple languages.
Next, we provide a detailed explanation of the text embedding module. The representation cte that
combines both text glyph and caption semantic information is defined as
cte = τθ(ϕ(y′), ξ(γθ(eg))) (4)
where y′ is the processed input caption y that each text line to be generated (enclosed within double
quotation marks) is replaced with a special placeholder S∗. Then after tokenization and embedding
lookup denoted as ϕ(·), the caption embeddings are obtained. Then, each text line is rendered onto
an image, denoted as eg. Note that eg is generated by only rendering a single text line onto an image
in the center, while lg in Sec. 3.2 is produced by rendering all text lines onto a single image on
their locations. The image eg is then fed into an OCR recognition model γθ to extract the feature
before the last fully connected layer as text embedding, then a linear transformation ξ is applied to
ensure its size matches caption embeddings, and replace it with embedding of S∗. Finally, all token
embeddings are encoded using a CLIP text encoder τθ.
5

3.4 T EXT PERCEPTUAL LOSS
We propose a text perceptual loss to further improve the accuracy of text generation. Assuming εt
represents the noise predicted by the denoiser network ϵθ, we can combine the time step t and noisy
latent image zt to predict z0 as described in Ho et al. (2020). This can be further used with the V AE
decoder to obtain an approximate reconstruction of the original input image, denoted asx′
0. By tran-
sitioning from latent space to image space, we can further supervise text generation at a pixel-wise
level. With the help of the position condition lp, we can accurately locate the region of generated
text. We aim to compare this region with the corresponding area in the original imagex0, and focus
solely on the writing correctness of the text itself, excluding factors such as background, deviations
in character positions, colors, or font styles. Thus, we employ the PP-OCRv3 model, as mentioned
in Sec. 3.3, as the image encoder. By processing x0 and x′
0 at position p through operations such as
cropping, affine transformation, padding, and normalization, we obtain the images pg and p′
g to be
used as inputs for the OCR model. We utilize the feature maps ˆmp, ˆm′p ∈ Rh×w×c before the fully
connected layer to represent the textual writing information in the original and predicted image at
position p, respectively. The text perceptual loss is expressed as
Ltp =
X
p
φ(t)
hw
X
h,w
∥ ˆmp − ˆm′p∥2
2 (5)
By imposing a Mean Squared Error (MSE) penalty, we attempt to minimize the discrepancies be-
tween the predicted and original image in all text regions. As time stept is related to the text quality
in predicted image x′
0, we need to design a weight adjustment function φ(t). It has been found that
setting φ(t) = ¯αt is a good choice, where ¯αt is the coefficient of diffusion process introduced in
Ho et al. (2020).
4 D ATASET AND BENCHMARK
Currently, there is a lack of publicly available datasets specifically tailored for text generation tasks,
especially those involving non-Latin languages. Therefore, we propose AnyWord-3M, a large-scale
multilingual dataset from publicly available images. The sources of these images include Noah-
Wukong Gu et al. (2022), LAION-400M Schuhmann et al. (2021), as well as datasets used for OCR
recognition tasks such as ArT, COCO-Text, RCTW, LSVT, MLT, MTWI, ReCTS. These images
cover a diverse range of scenes that contain text, including street views, book covers, advertisements,
posters, movie frames, etc. Except for the OCR datasets, where the annotated information is used di-
rectly, all other images are processed using the PP-OCRv3 Li et al. (2022) detection and recognition
models. Then, captions are regenerated using BLIP-2 Li et al. (2023). Please refer to Appendix A.3
for more details about dataset preparation.
Through strict filtering rules and meticulous post-processing, we obtained a total of 3,034,486 im-
ages, with over 9 million lines of text and more than 20 million characters or Latin words. We
randomly extracted 1000 images from both Wukong and LAION subsets to create the evaluation set
called AnyText-benchmark. These two evaluation sets are specifically used to evaluate the accuracy
and quality of Chinese and English generation, respectively. The remaining images are used as the
training set called AnyWord-3M, among which approximately 1.6 million are in Chinese, 1.39 mil-
lion are in English, and 10k images in other languages, including Japanese, Korean, Arabic, Bangla,
and Hindi. For a detailed statistical analysis and randomly selected example images, please refer to
Appendix A.4.
For the AnyText-benchmark, we utilized three evaluation metrics to assess the accuracy and quality
of text generation. Firstly, we employed the Sentence Accuracy (Sen. Acc) metric, where each
generated text line was cropped according to the specified position and fed into the OCR model to
obtain predicted results. Only when the predicted text completely matched the ground truth was
it considered correct. Additionally, we employed another less stringent metric, the Normalized
Edit Distance (NED) to measure the similarity between two strings. As we used PP-OCRv3 for
feature extraction during training, to ensure fairness, we chose another open-source model called
DuGuangOCR ModelScope (2023) for evaluation, which also performs excellently in both Chinese
and English recognition. However, relying solely on OCR cannot fully capture the image quality.
Therefore, we introduced the Frechet Inception Distance (FID) to assess the distribution discrepancy
between generated images and real-world images.
6

Table 2: Quantitative comparison of AnyText and competing methods. †is trained on LAION-Glyph-10M,
and ‡is fine-tuned on TextCaps-5k. All competing methods are evaluated using their officially released models.
Methods English Chinese
Sen. ACC↑ NED↑ FID↓ Sen. ACC↑ NED↑ FID↓
ControlNet 0.5837 0.8015 45.41 0.3620 0.6227 41.86
TextDiffuser 0.5921 0.7951 41.31 0.0605 0.1262 53.37
GlyphControl† 0.3710 0.6680 37.84 0.0327 0.0845 34.36
GlyphControl‡ 0.5262 0.7529 43.10 0.0454 0.1017 49.51
AnyText-v1.0 0.6588 0.8568 35.87 0.6634 0.8264 28.46
AnyText-v1.1 0.7239 0.8760 33.54 0.6923 0.8396 31.58
5 E XPERIMENTS
5.1 I MPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Our training framework is implemented based on ControlNet 1, and the model’s weights are initial-
ized from SD1.5 2. In comparison to ControlNet, we only increased the parameter size by 0.34%
and the inference time by 1.04%, refer to A.2 for more details. Our model was trained on the
AnyWord-3M dataset for 10 epochs using 8 Tesla A100 GPUs. We employed a progressive fine-
tuning strategy, where the editing branch was turned off for the first 5 epochs, then activated with a
probability of σ = 0.5 for the next 3 epochs. In the last 2 epochs, we enabled the perceptual loss
with a weight coefficient of λ = 0.01. Image dimensions of lg and lp are set to be 1024x1024 and
512x512, while eg, pg, and p′
g are all set to be 80x512. We use AdamW optimizer with a learning
rate of 2e-5 and a batch size of 48. During sampling process, based on the statistical information
from A.4, a maximum of 5 text lines from each image and 20 characters from each text line were
chosen to render onto the image, as this setting can cover the majority of cases in the dataset.
Recently, we found that the quality of OCR annotations in the training data has a significant impact
on the text generation metrics. We made minor improvements to the method and dataset, then fine-
tuned the original model, resulting in the AnyText-v1.1, which achieved significant performance
improvements. Details of the updated model are provided in Appendix A.7. It should be noted that
all example images used in this article are still generated by the v1.0 model.
5.2 C OMPARISON RESULTS
5.2.1 Q UANTITATIVE RESULTS
We evaluated existing competing methods, including ControlNet Zhang & Agrawala (2023), TextD-
iffuser Chen et al. (2023b), and GlyphControl Yang et al. (2023), using the benchmark and metrics
mentioned in Sec. 4. To ensure fair evaluation, all methods employed the DDIM sampler with 20
steps of sampling, a CFG-scale of 9, a fixed random seed of 100, a batch size of 4, and the same
positive and negative prompt words. The quantitative comparison results can be found in Table 2.
Additionally, we provide some generated images from AnyText-benchmark in Appendix A.5.
From the results, we can observe that AnyText outperforms competing methods in both Chinese
and English text generation by a large margin, in terms of OCR accuracy (Sen.ACC, NED) and
realism (FID). It is worth mentioning that our training set only consists of 1.39 million English data,
while TextDiffuser and GlyphControl are trained on 10 million pure English data. An interesting
phenomenon is that ControlNet(with canny control) tends to randomly generate pseudo-text in the
background, evaluation methods as in Chen et al. (2023b) that utilize OCR detection and recognition
models may yield low evaluation scores. However, in our metric, we focus only on the specified text
generation areas, and we find that ControlNet performs well in these areas. Nevertheless, the style
of the generated text from ControlNet appears rigid and monotonous, as if it was pasted onto the
background, resulting in a poor FID score. Regarding Chinese text generation, both TextDiffuser
and GlyphControl can only generate some Latin characters, punctuation marks or numbers within
a Chinese text. In AnyText, our Chinese text generation accuracy surpasses all other methods. In
the stringent evaluation metric of Sen. ACC, we achieve an accuracy of over 66%. Additionally,
AnyText obtains the lowest FID score, indicating superior realism in the generated text.
1https://github.com/lllyasviel/ControlNet
2https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5
7

5.2.2 Q UALITATIVE RESULTS
Regarding the generation of the English text, we compared our model with state-of-the-art models or
APIs in the field of text-to-image generation, such as SD-XL1.0, Bing Image Creator 3, DALL-E2,
and DeepFloyd IF, as shown in Fig. 5. These models have shown significant improvements in text
generation compared to previous works . However, there is still a considerable gap between them
and professional text generation models. Regarding the generation of Chinese text, the complexity of
strokes and the vast number of character categories pose significant challenges. GlyphDraw Ma et al.
(2023a) is the first method that addresses this task. Due to the lack of open-source models or APIs,
we were unable to conduct quantitative evaluation and instead relied on qualitative comparisons
using examples from GlyphDraw paper. Meanwhile, since ControlNet can also generate Chinese
text effectively, we included it as well. As shown in Fig. 6, AnyText shows superior integration of
generated text with background, such as text carved into stone, reflections on signboards with words,
chalk-style text on a blackboard, and slightly distorted text influenced by clothing folds.
Promptphoto of a pullover, that reads "hell hath no fury like a woman sleep deprived"a coffee mug that reads “real men play the ukulele”
an image with text that reads "owl always love you"
a book with the title "SHRINKY ARTS"
a purple sign with the words “BirthdayPartiesfor Kids”
负向提示词： longbody, lowres, bad anatomy, bad hands, missing fingers, extra digit, fewer digits, cropped, worst quality, low quality, watermark
SD-XL1.0BingDALL·E2DeepFloyd IFOriginalAnyText
Figure 5: Qualitative comparison of AnyText and state-of-the-art models or APIs in English text
generation. All captions are selected from the English evaluation dataset in AnyText-benchmark.
5.3 A BLATION STUDY
In this part, we extracted 200k images (with 160k in Chinese) from AnyWord-3M as the training
set, and used the Chinese evaluation dataset in AnyText-benchmark to validate the effectiveness of
each submodule in AnyText. Each model was trained for 15 epochs, requiring 60 hours on 8 Tesla
V100 GPUs. The training parameters were kept consistent with those mentioned in Sec. 5.1. By
analyzing the experimental results in Table 3, we draw the following conclusions:
Editing: Comparing Exp.1 and Exp.2 we observed a slight decrease when editing branch is enabled.
This is because text generation and editing are two different tasks, and enabling editing branch
increases the difficulty of model convergence. To focus on analyzing the text generation part, we
disabled editing in all subsequent experiments by setting the probability parameter σ to 0.
Text Embedding: Exp.2 ∼ 5 validate the effectiveness of the text embedding module. In Exp.2, cap-
tions are encoded directly by the CLIP text encoder. Exp.3 employs the CLIP vision encoder(vit)
3https://www.bing.com/create
8

There is a stone tablet on the seashore with the inscription "北戴河(BeidaiRiver)"
A raccoon stands in front of a blackboard that says “深度学习(Deep Learning)”
A red panda holding a sign that says “我要爬树(I want to climb a tree)"
A T-shirt that says “没有行星(No Planet)"
GlyphDraw AnyText
ControlNet
Figure 6: Comparative examples between GlyphDraw, ControlNet, and AnyText in Chinese text
generation, all taken from the original GlyphDraw paper.
Table 3: Ablation experiments of AnyText on a small-scale dataset from AnyWord-3M. The results validate
the effectiveness of each submodule in AnyText.
Exp. № Editing Position Text Embedding Perceptual Loss λ Chinese
Sen. ACC↑ NED↑
1 ✓ ✓ × × - 0.1552 0.4070
2 × ✓ × × - 0.2024 0.4649
3 × ✓ vit × - 0.1416 0.3809
4 × ✓ conv × - 0.1864 0.4402
5 × ✓ ocr × - 0.4595 0.7072
6 × × ocr × - 0.4472 0.6974
7 × ✓ ocr ✓ 0.003 0.4848 0.7353
8 × ✓ ocr ✓ 0.01 0.4996 0.7457
9 × ✓ ocr ✓ 0.03 0.4659 0.7286
as the feature extractor, but yielded unsatisfactory results, likely due to images with only rendered
text falling into the Out-of-Distribution data category for the pre-trained CLIP vision model, hinder-
ing its text stroke encoding capabilities. Exp.4 experimented with a trainable module composed of
stacked convolutions and an average pooling layer(conv), which struggled without tailored super-
vision. In Exp.5, utilizing the pre-trained OCR model(PP-OCRv3) resulted in a significant 25.7%
increase in Sen. Acc metric compared to Exp.2.
Position: Comparing Exp.5 and Exp.6, although the rendered text in lg contains positional infor-
mation implicitly, the inclusion of a more accurate position lp further improves performance and
enables the model to generate text in irregular regions.
Text Perceptual Loss: Exp.7 ∼ 9 validate the effectiveness of text perceptual loss. Upon conducting
three experiments, we found that λ = 0.01 yielded the best results, with a 4.0% improvement com-
pared to Exp.5 in Sen. Acc metric. It is worth noting that perceptual loss necessitates transitioning
from latent space to image space, which slows down the training process. Therefore, for Exp.7 ∼ 9,
we started training from epoch 13 of Exp.5 and trained only for the remaining 2 epochs. Despite
this, perceptual loss demonstrated significant improvements.
9

6 C ONCLUSION AND LIMITATIONS
In this paper, we delve into the extensively researched problem of text generation in the field of text-
to-image synthesis. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach called AnyText, which
is a diffusion-based multi-lingual text generation and editing framework. Our approach incorporates
an auxiliary latent module that combines text glyph, position, and masked image into a latent space.
Furthermore, in the text embedding module, we leverage an OCR model to extract glyph information
and merge it with the semantic details of the image caption, thereby enhancing the consistency
between the text and the background. To improve writing accuracy, we employ text-control diffusion
loss and text perceptual loss during training. In terms of training data, we present the AnyWord-3M
dataset, comprising 3 million text-image pairs in multiple languages with OCR annotations. To
demonstrate the superior performance of AnyText, we conduct comprehensive experiments on the
proposed AnyText-benchmark, showcasing its superiority over existing methods. Moving forward,
our future work will focus on exploring the generation of extremely small fonts and investigating
text generation with controllable attributes.
REFERENCES
ArT. Icdar2019 robust reading challenge on arbitrary-shaped text. https://rrc.cvc.uab.es/?ch=14,
2019.
Yogesh Balaji, Seungjun Nah, Xun Huang, Arash Vahdat, Jiaming Song, Karsten Kreis, Miika
Aittala, Timo Aila, Samuli Laine, Bryan Catanzaro, Tero Karras, and Ming-Yu Liu. ediff-i:
Text-to-image diffusion models with an ensemble of expert denoisers. arXiv preprint, 2022.
Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A. Efros. Instructpix2pix: Learning to follow image
editing instructions. arXiv preprint, abs/2211.09800, 2022.
Huiwen Chang, Han Zhang, Jarred Barber, Aaron Maschinot, Jos ´e Lezama, Lu Jiang, Ming-Hsuan
Yang, Kevin Murphy, William T. Freeman, Michael Rubinstein, Yuanzhen Li, and Dilip Kr-
ishnan. Muse: Text-to-image generation via masked generative transformers. arXiv preprint,
abs/2301.00704, 2023.
Haoxing Chen, Zhuoer Xu, Zhangxuan Gu, Jun Lan, Xing Zheng, Yaohui Li, Changhua Meng,
Huijia Zhu, and Weiqiang Wang. Diffute: Universal text editing diffusion model. arXiv preprint,
abs/2305.10825, 2023a.
Jingye Chen, Yupan Huang, Tengchao Lv, Lei Cui, Qifeng Chen, and Furu Wei. Textdiffuser:
Diffusion models as text painters. arXiv preprint, abs/2305.10855, 2023b.
Zhuowei Chen, Shancheng Fang, Wei Liu, Qian He, Mengqi Huang, Yongdong Zhang, and Zhen-
dong Mao. Dreamidentity: Improved editability for efficient face-identity preserved image gen-
eration. arXiv preprint, abs/2307.00300, 2023c.
COCO-Text. A large-scale scene text dataset based on mscoco. https://bgshih.github.io/cocotext,
2016.
DeepFloyd-Lab. Deepfloyd if. https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF, 2023.
Prafulla Dhariwal and Alexander Quinn Nichol. Diffusion models beat gans on image synthesis. In
NeurIPS, pp. 8780–8794, 2021.
Rinon Gal, Yuval Alaluf, Yuval Atzmon, Or Patashnik, Amit Haim Bermano, Gal Chechik, and
Daniel Cohen-Or. An image is worth one word: Personalizing text-to-image generation using
textual inversion. In ICLR, 2023.
Jiaxi Gu, Xiaojun Meng, Guansong Lu, Lu Hou, Minzhe Niu, Hang Xu, Xiaodan Liang, Wei Zhang,
Xin Jiang, and Chunjing Xu. Wukong: 100 million large-scale chinese cross-modal pre-training
dataset and A foundation framework. CoRR, abs/2202.06767, 2022.
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In NeurIPS,
2020.
10

Lianghua Huang, Di Chen, Yu Liu, Yujun Shen, Deli Zhao, and Jingren Zhou. Composer: Creative
and controllable image synthesis with composable conditions. arXiv preprint, abs/2302.09778,
2023.
Midjourney Inc. Midjourney. https://www.midjourney.com/, 2022.
Diederik P. Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding variational bayes. In 2nd International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2014, Banff, AB, Canada, April 14-16, 2014,
Conference Track Proceedings, 2014.
Chenxia Li, Weiwei Liu, Ruoyu Guo, Xiaoting Yin, Kaitao Jiang, Yongkun Du, Yuning Du,
Lingfeng Zhu, Baohua Lai, Xiaoguang Hu, Dianhai Yu, and Yanjun Ma. Pp-ocrv3: More at-
tempts for the improvement of ultra lightweight OCR system. CoRR, abs/2206.03001, 2022.
Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven C. H. Hoi. BLIP-2: bootstrapping language-
image pre-training with frozen image encoders and large language models. arXiv preprint,
abs/2301.12597, 2023.
Rosanne Liu, Dan Garrette, Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Adam Roberts, Sharan Narang, Irina
Blok, RJ Mical, Mohammad Norouzi, and Noah Constant. Character-aware models improve
visual text rendering. In ACL, pp. 16270–16297, 2023.
LSVT. Icdar2019 robust reading challenge on large-scale street view text with partial labeling.
https://rrc.cvc.uab.es/?ch=16, 2019.
Jian Ma, Mingjun Zhao, Chen Chen, Ruichen Wang, Di Niu, Haonan Lu, and Xiaodong Lin. Glyph-
draw: Learning to draw chinese characters in image synthesis models coherently. arXiv preprint,
abs/2303.17870, 2023a.
Yiyang Ma, Huan Yang, Wenjing Wang, Jianlong Fu, and Jiaying Liu. Unified multi-modal latent
diffusion for joint subject and text conditional image generation. arXiv preprint, abs/2303.09319,
2023b.
Chenlin Meng, Yutong He, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Jiajun Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Stefano Ermon.
Sdedit: Guided image synthesis and editing with stochastic differential equations. InICLR, 2022.
MLT. Icdar 2019 robust reading challenge on multi-lingual scene text detection and recognition.
https://rrc.cvc.uab.es/?ch=15, 2019.
ModelScope. Duguangocr. https://modelscope.cn/models/damo/cv_
convnextTiny_ocr-recognition-general_damo/summary, 2023.
Chong Mou, Xintao Wang, Liangbin Xie, Jian Zhang, Zhongang Qi, Ying Shan, and Xiaohu Qie.
T2i-adapter: Learning adapters to dig out more controllable ability for text-to-image diffusion
models. arXiv preprint, abs/2302.08453, 2023.
MTWI. Icpr 2018 challenge on multi-type web images. https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/137084,
2018.
Alexander Quinn Nichol and Prafulla Dhariwal. Improved denoising diffusion probabilistic models.
In ICML, volume 139, pp. 8162–8171, 2021.
PaddlePaddle. Pp-ocrv4. https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleOCR/blob/
release/2.7/doc/doc_ch/PP-OCRv4_introduction.md, 2023.
Aditya Ramesh, Mikhail Pavlov, Gabriel Goh, Scott Gray, Chelsea V oss, Alec Radford, Mark Chen,
and Ilya Sutskever. Zero-shot text-to-image generation. In ICML, volume 139, pp. 8821–8831.
PMLR, 2021.
Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu, and Mark Chen. Hierarchical text-
conditional image generation with CLIP latents. arXiv preprint, abs/2204.06125, 2022.
RCTW. Icdar2017 competition on reading chinese text in the wild. https://rctw.vlrlab.net/dataset,
2017.
11

ReCTS. Icdar 2019 robust reading challenge on reading chinese text on signboard.
https://rrc.cvc.uab.es/?ch=12, 2019.
Juan A. Rodriguez, David V´azquez, Issam H. Laradji, Marco Pedersoli, and Pau Rodr´ıguez. OCR-
VQGAN: taming text-within-image generation. In W ACV, pp. 3678–3687, 2023.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bj ¨orn Ommer. High-
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In CVPR, pp. 10684–10695, June 2022.
Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay Whang, Emily L. Denton, Seyed
Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour, Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans,
Jonathan Ho, David J. Fleet, and Mohammad Norouzi. Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion
models with deep language understanding. In NeurIPS, 2022.
Christoph Schuhmann, Richard Vencu, Romain Beaumont, Robert Kaczmarczyk, Clayton Mullis,
Aarush Katta, Theo Coombes, Jenia Jitsev, and Aran Komatsuzaki. LAION-400M: open dataset
of clip-filtered 400 million image-text pairs. CoRR, abs/2111.02114, 2021.
Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard Vencu, Cade Gordon, Ross Wightman, Mehdi
Cherti, Theo Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton Mullis, Mitchell Wortsman, Patrick Schramowski,
Srivatsa Kundurthy, Katherine Crowson, Ludwig Schmidt, Robert Kaczmarczyk, and Jenia Jit-
sev. Laion-5b: An open large-scale dataset for training next generation image-text models. In
S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal, D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh (eds.),Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 35, pp. 25278–25294. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022.
Jing Shi, Wei Xiong, Zhe Lin, and Hyun Joon Jung. Instantbooth: Personalized text-to-image
generation without test-time finetuning. arXiv preprint, abs/2304.03411, 2023.
Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P. Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben
Poole. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. InICLR, 2021.
Yuxiang Wei, Yabo Zhang, Zhilong Ji, Jinfeng Bai, Lei Zhang, and Wangmeng Zuo. ELITE: en-
coding visual concepts into textual embeddings for customized text-to-image generation. arXiv
preprint, abs/2302.13848, 2023.
Yukang Yang, Dongnan Gui, Yuhui Yuan, Haisong Ding, Han Hu, and Kai Chen. Glyphcontrol:
Glyph conditional control for visual text generation. arXiv preprint, abs/2305.18259, 2023.
Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding conditional control to text-to-image diffusion models.
arXiv preprint, abs/2302.05543, 2023.
A A PPENDIX
A.1 M ORE EXAMPLES ON THE FLEXIBILITY OF ANYTEXT
By adopting the architecture of ControlNet, AnyText exhibits great flexibility. On one hand, the base
model’s conventional text-to-image generation capability is preserved as shown in Fig. 7. On the
other hand, the open-source community, such as HuggingFace and CivitAI, has developed a wide
range of base models with diverse styles. By modularly binding AnyText, as depicted in Fig. 8,
these models(Oil Painting4, Guoha Diffusion5, Product Design 6, and Moon Film 7) can acquire the
ability to generate text. All of these aspects highlight the highly versatile use cases of AnyText.
A.2 P ARAMETER SIZE AND COMPUTATIONAL OVERHEAD OF ANYTEXT
Our framework is implemented based on ControlNet. Despite the addition of some modules, it did
not significantly increase the parameter size, as refered to Table 4. We compared the computational
overhead of both models using a batch size of 4 on a single Tesla V100, the inference time for
ControlNet is 3476 ms/image, and for AnyText is 3512 ms/image.
4https://civitai.com/models/20184
5https://civitai.com/models/33/guoha-diffusion
6https://civitai.com/models/23893
7https://civitai.com/models/43977
12

An astronaut riding a horse in photo-realistic style.
A cute corgi lives in a house made out of sushi.
A teddy bear on a skateboard in times square
Glowing jellyfish floating through a foggy forest at twilight
Figure 7: Examples of AnyText generating images without text.
Oil painting of a young girl with black hair and a red coat, with texts ”年轻女人(young lady)” written on it
A nice traditional Chinese painting, self-portrait of Kobe Bryant, with text of "科比(Kobe)"Photo of a futuristic silver sports car, 3D product render style, with "TESLA" on the front
A girl wearing a police uniform and a cap, with “POLICE” on it,   masterpiece, cinematic lighting, detailed face, fashion, slightly smile
Figure 8: Examples of community models integrated with AnyText that can generate text.
Table 4: The Comparison of the parameter sizes of modules between ControlNet and AnyText.
Modules ControlNet AnyText
UNet 859M 859M
V AE 83.7M 83.7M
CLIP Text Encoder 123M 123M
ControlNet 361M -
TextControlNet - 360M
Glyph Block - 0.35M
Position Block - 0.04M
Fuse Layer - 0.93M
OCR Model - 2.6M
Linear Layer - 2.0M
Total 1426.7M 1431.6M
13

Table 5: Statistics of dataset size and line count in subsets of AnyWord-3M.
Subsets image count image w/o text line count mean lines/img #img <=5 lines
Wukong 1.54M 0 3.23M 2.10 1.51M, 98.1%
LAION 1.39M 0 5.75M 4.13 1.03M, 74.0%
OCR datasets 0.1M 21.7K 203.5K 2.03 93.7K, 93.6%
Total 3.03M 21.7K 9.18M 3.03 2.64M, 86.9%
A.3 M ORE DETAILS ABOUT DATASET PREPARATION
Filtering Rules : We have established strict filtering rules to ensure the quality of training data.
Taking the Chinese dataset Wukong Gu et al. (2022) as an example, each original image undergoes
the following filtering rules:
• Width or height of the image should be no less than 256.
• Aspect ratio of the image should be between 0.67 and 1.5.
• Area of the text region should not be less than 10% of the entire image.
• Number of text lines in the image should not exceed 8.
Next, for the remaining images, each text line is filtered based on the following rules:
• Height of the text should not be less than 30 pixels.
• Score of OCR recognition of the text should be no lower than 0.7.
• Content of the text should not be empty or consist solely of whitespace.
We implemented similar filtering rules on the LAION-400M Schuhmann et al. (2021) dataset, al-
though the rules were more stringent due to the abundance of English data compared to Chinese.
By implementing these rigorous filtering rules, we aim to ensure that the training data consists of
high-quality images and accurately recognized text lines.
Image Captions: We regenerated caption for each image using BLIP-2 Li et al. (2023) and removed
specific placeholders S∗ (such as ‘*’). Then, we randomly selected one of the following statements
and concatenated it to the caption:
• “, content and position of the texts are ”
• “, textual material depicted in the image are ”
• “, texts that say ”
• “, captions shown in the snapshot are ”
• “, with the words of ”
• “, that reads ”
• “, the written materials on the picture: ”
• “, these texts are written on it: ”
• “, captions are ”
• “, content of the text in the graphic is ”
Next, based on the number of text lines, the placeholders will be concatenated at the end to form
the final textual description, such as: “ a button with an orange and white design on it, these texts
are written on it: *, *, *, *”. After processing through the text embedding module, the embeddings
corresponding to the placeholders will be replaced with embeddings of the text’s glyph information.
A.4 S TASTIC AND EXAMPLES OF ANYWORD -3M
In Table 5 and Table 6, we provide detailed statistics on the composition of AnyWord-3M dataset.
Additionally, in Fig. 9, we present some example images from the dataset.
14

Table 6: Statistics of characters or words for different languages in AnyWord-3M.
Lanuages line count chars/words count unique chars/words mean chars/line #line <=20 chars
Chinese 2.90M 15.09M 5.9K 5.20 2.89M, 99.5%
English 6.27M 6.35M 695.2K 5.42 6.25M, 99.7%
Others 11.7K 59.5K 2.1K 5.06 11.7K, 100%
Total 9.18M 21.50M 703.3K 5.35 9.15M, 99.6%
Wukong
LAION
 OCR Datasets
Figure 9: Examples of images from the AnyWord-3M dataset.
A.5 E XAMPLES FROM ANYTEXT-BENCHMARK
We selected some images from the generated image of AnyText-benchmark evaluation set. The
English and Chinese examples can be seen in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11, respectively. All the example
images were generated using the same fixed random seed, as well as the same positive prompt
(“best quality, extremely detailed” ) and negative prompt ( “longbody, lowres, bad anatomy, bad
hands, missing fingers, extra digit, fewer digits, cropped, worst quality, low quality, watermark”).
A.6 M ORE EXAMPLES OF ANYTEXT
We present additional examples in the text generation (see Fig. 12) and text editing (see Fig. 13).
A.7 I MPLEMENTATION DETAILS OF ANYTEXT-V1.1
We randomly sampled some text lines in AnyWord-3M and observed that the OCR annotation error
rate for the English portion was 2.4%, while for the Chinese portion was significantly higher at
11.8%. So, for the Chinese part, we used the latest PP-OCRv4 PaddlePaddle (2023) to regenerate
the OCR annotations; and for the English part, we found that the annotations from MARIO-LAION
by TextDiffuser Chen et al. (2023b) performed slightly better on some severely deformed English
sentences compared to PP-OCRv4, so we replaced them with their annotations. Additionally, we
slightly increased some data and making the ratio of the English and Chinese was approximately 1:1.
This updated dataset was labeled as v1.1, as shown in Table 7. In addition, we added a “wm score”
label for each image to indicate the probability of containing a watermark, which is used to filter
images with watermarks in the final stage of model training.
Furthermore, we proposed a method called “inv mask”. For each text line in the image, if its recog-
nition score is too low, or the text is too small, or if it is not among the 5 randomly chosen text lines,
15

ControlNetTextDiffuserGlyphControl†GlyphControl2‡OriginalAnyText
Figure 10: Examples of images in English from the AnyText-benchmark. †is trained on LAION-
Glyph-10M, and ‡is fine-tuned on TextCaps-5k.
ControlNetTextDiffuserGlyphControl†GlyphControl2‡OriginalAnyText
Figure 11: Examples of images in Chinese from the AnyText-benchmark. †is trained on LAION-
Glyph-10M, and ‡is fine-tuned on TextCaps-5k.
16

ancient Chinese copper coin,  textson it are “人” “工” “智” “能”(artificial intelligence)
photo of a caramel macchiato coffee, top-down perspective, with "Any" "Text" written using chocolateasweater with knitted text on it, ”AnyText"
acolorful graffiti on the building, with the words “深度学习”(deep learning)
aluxurious women's leather handbag, engraved with the golden words "AnyText".abeautifully crafted decorative pillow with the words "AnyText"
afuturistic-looking robot, with the words "具身智能”(embodiedAI) on his bodyon a bustling street during the night, neon lights spell out “神经网络”(neural network)
adrawing by a child with crayons,   a castle made of lollipops, marshmallows,and candies, “糖果城堡(candy castle)”
a nice drawing in pencil of Michael Jackson,  with the words "Micheal" and "Jackson"
nice Chinese calligraphy work hanging in the middle of the living room, with words “物載德厚(self-discipline and social commitment)"
anice drawing bycrayons, a dog wearing a superhero cape soars sky,  with the words “SuperDog” "by Alice" and "09-25"
Figure 12: More examples of AnyText in text generation.
Figure 13: More examples of AnyText in text editing.
17

Table 7: Changes in the data scale of AnyWord-3M.
Version Wukong LAION Total wm score<0.5
v1.0 1.54M 1.39M 3.03M –
v1.1 1.71M 1.72M 3.53M 2.95M
Table 8: Improvement of watermark and pseudo-text of AnyText, tested on private model and dataset.
Version English Chinese
watermark pseudo-text watermark pseudo-text
v1.0 6.9% 119.0% 24.7% 166.8%
v1.1 0.4% 110.9% 2.9% 124.4%
it will be marked as invalid. Subsequently, these invalid text lines are combined to form a mask, and
during training, the loss in the corresponding area will be set to 0. This straightforward approach
can bring significant improvement in OCR metrics, as illustrated in 2, and also notably reduced the
ratio of pseudo-text areas in the background, as depicted in 8.
The v1.0 model underwent further fine-tuning on the AnyWord-3M v1.1 dataset for 5 epochs, with
the last 2 epochs using data of wm score < 0.5, filtering out approximately 25% Chinese data and
8% English data. The parameter λ for perceptual loss was set to 0.003, as it yielded favorable
results for both Chinese and English on the v1.1 dataset. Subsequent to the training process, the
original SD1.5 base model was replaced with a community model Realistic Vision8, which makes
the generated images more aesthetically appealing. The final model was labeled as version v1.1.
8https://huggingface.co/SG161222/Realistic Vision V5.0 noV AE
18

